nicole Taplin earned her liberal arts
degree from Washington University in
1992 freshman and sophomore year I threw
myself into my sorority we did a whole
bunch of charity work I tried out for
the tennis team and kind of like made it
by the skin of my teeth really just kind
of enjoyed being part of the community
Nicole credits a particular professor
Lawrence Meyer with giving her academic
opportunities that lay the foundation
for her career one of my economics
professors offered me an internship at
his firm so this particular professor
actually went on to be a governor on the
board of the Federal Reserve this was a
fellow who kind of really kind of took
me under his wing invited me to his home
for Passover made me part of his
extended family gave me the opportunity
to be a teaching assistant to do a
senior thesis 10 years ago Nicole
founded Celeste Oh a boutique bank that
offers private placements for startups
consulting for fortune 500 companies in
merchant banking I don't know that I
actually chose finance or chose
Investment Banking I really just chose
an environment where I felt I could
stretch and then woke up kind of 10
years later actually good at something
ttle estou has already placed 250
million dollars of capital on behalf of
18 companies nicole has had particular
success in raising private investment
capital for clean energy and
environmental projects give me what
you're throwing away and I'll find a way
to make it valuable this company they
literally take the grease that comes out
of hamburgers when you fry it and they
take that grease and they reformulate it
and they turn it into something that
behaves like coal that for me is kind of
the ultimate in wow we did something
good here we took something that
literally was worthless and we turned it
into something that the world uses one
of its most important resources that's
the kind of project that get stellastot
really excited Nicole developed a strong
relationship with the donors who
provided her with a scholarship as an
undergraduate I was literally
definitionally the scholarship kid I was
that mishmash of federal money and state
money and university money
and parental money and we were still
coming up a little bit short I was a
beneficiary of something called the
Samuel and may ruin scholarship and I
went home during Christmas to New York
City and called up Eric Rudin's family
and said look you know I just want to
take you out to lunch to say thank you
and really didn't appreciate kind of how
silly that was right i mean i was like
this 19 year old kid on financial aid
taking Eric rootin out to lunch and his
his family was one of the most prominent
real estate families in Manhattan and I
was you know scraping together my beer
money to take the guy out to lunch so I
was rather taken by that she asked me
about what I did in the business and it
was just a really lovely fun
entertaining lunch he humored me and he
let me take him out to lunch basically
every time I came home for vacation when
I graduated the rude and family paid off
all of my student debts so I do cry I'm
still can't get through that story um
but it's one of the most important
relationships that I have Nicola we
speaks with one voice she's not
different people in her personal life
and she is in her business life she is
the person you see and I think that's a
wonderful trade brings a smile on my
face when I think about her and I'm very
lucky for that